.Dd March 14, 2021
.Dt RUN-BORG 8
.Os steevie
.Sh NAME
.Nm run-borg-custom
.Nd run
.Xr borg 1
with a custom list of files to back up
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl w
.Op Fl s
.Ar files ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
sets up the system to perform a backup and then invokes
.Xr borg-create 1
to do so.
It follows the same procedure documented in
.Xr run-borg 8 ,
except that it has no concept of system backups and is not affected by
.Pa /var/local/borg-trigger-system-backup .
Instead of building a list of files to back up,
.Nm
takes these files from its commandline arguments.
.Pp
There are two options:
.Fl w
will cause
.Nm
to continually retry the acquisition of
.Xr run-borg.lock 7
instead of bailing out if it can't immediately do so,
and
.Fl s
will cause
.Xr borg-create 1
to read special files such as block devices.
.Pp
The behavior of
.Nm
may be influenced by setting ZFS dataset properties.
Specifically, if the
.Li net.strugee:borgignore
property is set to
.Li on ,
then
.Nm
will destroy the newly-created snapshot of this dataset before running the backup.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Pp
This behavior is modified when
.Nm
is running under
.Xr chronic 1 .
Specifically, errors that cause stderr to be suppressed (see
.Sx DIAGNOSTICS )
also do not cause a nonzero exit code.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
A copy of stdout, as well as some additional logging information, is sent to the systemd journal.
.Pp
When running under
.Xr chronic 1 ,
stderr output for the following errors is suppressed:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Failure to acquire
.Xr run-borg.lock 5
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.An AJ Jordan Aq Mt alex@strugee.net
.Sh BUGS
.Nm
does not have some flags that
.Xr run-borg 8
does, even though they would make sense in
.Nm
too.
