.Dd August 4, 2020
.Dt RUN-BORG 8
.Os steevie
.Sh NAME
.Nm run-borg
.Nd run
.Xr borg 1
with the standard parameters for a system backup
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl l
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
sets up the system to perform a backup and then invokes
.Xr borg-create 1
to do so.
Specifically, it:
.Bl -enum
.It
Acquires the system Borg lock
.Xr run-borg.lock 5
(or bails out)
.It
Creates a recursive ZFS snapshot of
.Pa /
and mounts it at
.Pa /media/borg-stage
.It
Determines whether to include system files based on the presence of
.Pa /var/local/borg-trigger-system-backup
.It
Invokes
.Xr borg-create 1
with the standard parameters for compression, cache exclusion, etc.
.It
Cleans up the borg-stage ZFS snapshot, removes
.Pa /var/local/borg-trigger-system-backup ,
and releases the system Borg lock
.El
.Pp
There are two options:
.Fl v
can be passed to increase the verbosity of
.Xr borg 1
to
.Li INFO ,
and
.Fl l
can be passed to make
.Xr borg-create 1
list filesystem objects as they are processed.
.Pp
Do not use these flags in any context except an interactive console.
They are intended only for situations in which
.Nm
runs are being manually supervised every day due to there being more data to upload than is allowed in a single rate limit period.
.Pp
If you need anything else, particularly control over what is chosen for backup, use
.Xr run-borg-custom 8 .
.Em However ,
the behavior of
.Nm
may be influenced by setting ZFS dataset properties.
Specifically, if the
.Li net.strugee:borgignore
property is set to
.Li on ,
then
.Nm
will destroy the newly-created snapshot of this dataset before running the backup.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Pp
This behavior is modified when
.Nm
is running under
.Xr chronic 1 .
Specifically, errors that cause stderr to be suppressed (see
.Sx DIAGNOSTICS )
also do not cause a nonzero exit code.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
When running under
.Xr chronic 1 ,
stderr output for the following errors is suppressed:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Failure to acquire
.Xr run-borg.lock 5
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.An AJ Jordan Aq Mt alex@strugee.net
.Sh BUGS
There may be a problematic glob passed to
.Ar --exclude
and
.Nm
may not handle LXD datasets right.
